you
okay so we're here with the UK
photography show and I've been doing a
few sessions each and every day and it's
been quite interesting at the end of the
sessions that people have been coming up
asking about this phrase that we use we
do in researching which is working at
non-destructively so I thought and
although we're pretty busy here I
thought I'd just take a few months
before classes start again just to put
something nice and short together to
give you an idea of what I mean by
working non-destructively so I'll just
quickly show you on this picture here so
this is the final image and you'll
notice that this is actually shown as
being a smart object and we can see that
from the icon in the bottom right hand
corner on the thumbnail now if I just go
over to the picture here before it's
finished we can see that we've got all
these layers here that go to make up the
image and now I'm kind of at the stage
here where I want to just do some final
finishing touches I want to go and may
be used like a plugin like Google's Nick
Kerr if X Pro 4 or something like that
so ordinarily positon works something
like nah no sorry for Network
destructively what I would do at this
stage is create what's called a merged
or combine layer at the top of the layer
stack now there's lots of ways you can
do that there's that big long keyboard
shortcut of ctrl alt shift and E and
what that's gonna do is going to put a
combination of all the layers below here
into one layer above and you can see
when I turn that layer off nothing
changes even those are turned off
because they're now a combined layer at
the top of the layer stack another way
that you can do that is just go to
select all edit copy merged and then
edit and paste and that does exactly the
same thing it just kind of saves you
having to do a bit of origami origami
doesn't dance any fingers all the way
across the earth across the keyboard so
that's another way you can do it and you
can maybe program that as a keyboard
shortcut as well so if we're gonna now
carry on working I'm now gonna have to
go to my Nick color Efex Pro 4 I need to
be working on the image I couldn't have
worked on it where we've got this group
so I needed to have the image to work on
which is why I've now created this
merged or combined layer and then I
would come into the filter menu go to
the Nick collection core effects Pro 4
and then I would come in once the actual
plugin opens up and then we can start
applying some effects so let's say here
we're gonna come and use some detail
extractors so we'll add that
there may be a bit of cross balance into
adding a real kind of bluish kind of
mood which I really quite like just come
down here well go for something nice and
subtle I should just go for tungsten to
daylight and we can control a strength
there with those kind of sliders so when
I'm using a third party plug-in I can
continue to kind of add all these
filters and what I'm doing I'll just
click OK so now then let's just say that
I think I want to add a bit of a light
source so a very very simple easy way to
add a light source is just to add like a
blank layer which is just wait for this
to finish processing so I'm just an
added blank layer get a brush a nice
soft edge brush with a white foreground
color and I'll put a DAB on the on the
screen just there and we'll free
transform it and we'll get it nice and
big let's just zoom out just a touch
will make it nice and big press Enter
get my move tool and drag it to one
corner and I'd kind of carry on doing
the research in but now what happens if
I think I should add I don't really like
that blue or maybe I want to come down
here and affect some of the actual
dodging and burning well for me to do
that what I've now what to do is delete
all these layers of book that I've just
worked on so I need to delete the actual
Eliab containing the light can delete
the one that I've applied the plug-in on
and delete that merged layer now there
could have been many many more layers
that I've worked on here because
sometimes as you're working through your
pictures you could go to 60 70 80 if not
more layers
so if way down the line you then think I
need to change something you're gonna
rework this dodging and burning and then
you're gonna have to redo lots of work
so what we have in Photoshop and we've
had it for quite some time is smart
filters so what I'm gonna do first of
all in for me to use this third-party
plug-in we've got my Dodge and burn
group at the top here selected I'm gonna
hold down my shift key click on the very
very bottom layer there now and then go
to the flyout menu at the top of the
layer stack where it says convert to
smart object
click on that Photoshop do some
processing and what its gonna do is kind
of like the the Russian dolls those
herbal toys that you've seen for years
now where you've got one doll inside
another inside another and inside
another they're all there
but when you put one inside another it
just appears that there's one doll and
that's kind of like what a smart object
is it's gonna get all the layers that
you're going to select here and when you
convert them to a smart objects its
doors processing and put it like you can
see
into one layer but what that means is I
can now continue to use these plugins or
carry on doing more retouching let's
just go back in here and use the color
flex Pro for it's gonna bring up the
dialog box I'm gonna do some of the
effects again so there we go our detail
extractor we're gonna go for some cross
balance I'll just play any old kind of a
amount there and click OK
that's going to process it but now
here's the thing I can carry on doing
more research you now I can carry on
adding all the lights and all that kind
of stuff but if lights are on I think
you know I still don't like what I've
done with the dodging and burning or
maybe you know way way down the line
there was a little bit of blemish
remover that I did when I first had the
image open as a raw file maybe I want to
make some changes there well here's the
thing we can now come and click
double-click let's just close that so it
makes a bit more visible you can see now
here's our layer we've got this little
smart object symbol in the bottom right
hand corner of thumbnail when I double
click on that
let's just get with that dialog box I'll
only pop up once until you click in
there and then just click OK you'll
never really see that again it's just
kind of saying that you're now gonna see
all the layers that you were proceeding
what you've just done
so here now I can come in and make
changes to my dodging and burning and
when I just save that it's gonna affect
the final image shows a completely
non-destructive workflow I can go all
the way down and even but the bottom
layer here has got a smart object so
what happens when I double click on a
thumbnail there well then that's gonna
take me it's a Camera Raw so I can now
see what my original image was like and
let's have a lot of kind of things that
we did did I do any kind of use of the
adjust one process right click on the
adjustment brush here we've got a pin
where I click and I can actually come in
and make adjustments to the eyes if I
didn't think they were actually that
good so you can see if I do noise
non-destructive retouching it's going to
allow you the flexibility to come in
later on when you're doing your changes
because sometimes we do get a really
code away with our retouch and we get
pixel blind we do so much work and then
we save it and then when we look at the
picture again with fresh eyes were like
I didn't quite mean to do that if we've
worked destructively by creating those
merged or combined layers you can't go
back
well you can but you're gonna have to
delete it and then rework lots of layers
but by using smart objects you can kind
of like go back in time all right so
it's almost like using a time machine go
back in time make effects or might
changes way down the line to then get
the final result in the end picture so
that is basically what's used what we
call working non-destructively it's
gonna save you time and quite rightly
they've called it a smart object and a
smart filter because it is it's working
smart so I hope that kind of helps how
that explains what we mean by the two
terms working non-destructively and
working destructively
you